What is devops?

Devops is the approach that combines software development and operations to achieve efficient dev, delivery and deployment of software. The primary objective is to foster teamwork between the dev team and the ops team. In addition, processes
like automation, continuous integration, delivery, deployment, monitoring and feedback are also used to speed up delivery whilst reducing mistakes. All these will increase software quality, teams agility , productivity via quicker release
cycles and enhance team cooperation


What is a devops engineer?

A devops engineer is one that collaborates closely with software engineers and the operations team to implement continuous integration and continuous development so as to improve software quality and delivery efficiency. They are proficient
it development, automation, scripting and cloud computing. They are also adept in source control management, visualisation, deployment, virtualisation, containerisation, logging and monitoring tools.


What are the requirements of a devops engineer?

Excellent technological background, experience in devops tools and methodologies, scripting and automation, and cloud computing experience


What do you know about Devops?

Explain the importance of devops in the industry, how they synergise operations and development teams to accelerate delivery while reducing failures, Devops walks a product through an entire software developement lifecycle.


Agile vs devops?

Devops is a culture that allows swes and ops teams to work together, resulting in continuous software developement, deployment, testing, monitoring and integrations. Agile is about small incremental and rapid software releases to address
conflicts between customer feedback and developers


What are the popular devops tools?

Selenium, Puppet, Chef, Git, Jenkins, Ansible, and docker


What are the different phases of devops?

Plan, build, test, integrate, deploy, operate monitor


Benefits of Devops?

Continous deployment, stable environment, faster detection of defects, less complex problem, faster delivery, improve collaboration


How would you approach a project?

Assess existing process and identify areas of improvement
Come up with a PoC for approval
Begin with version control, testing, integration, deployment, delivery, monitoring


What is the difference between continuous delivery and continous deployment?

continuous delivery: code is always in deployable state, every change commited goes through pipeline of building, testing, and staging, manual approval is required before change is made
continuous deployment: code is always in deployable state, every change must pass tests in order to go into production, process is entirely automated, continuous monitoring and rollback is preferred as opposed to manual checks


How does continuous monitoring help in architecture maintenance?

Continuous monitoring helps with the process of detecting identify and reporting faults and threats. They ensure the all services, application and resources are running properly. Determines if the application are working correctly. 
Continuous audit, transaction inspection, control monitoring


What role does AWS play in devops?

Flexible ready to use services without installation
Scalable from one instance to thousands
Allows for automation
Security managed by IAM access policies
Large ecosystem of partnering services


Three important Devops KPIs?

Mean time to failure recovery
Deployment frequency 
Deployment failure rate


What is Infrastructure as code?

Manage configuration, deployment and automated provisionings with code
Manage data centers with machine readable configs instead of physical hardware
Ensuring all infrastructure comopnents are provisioned effectively
IaaS to administer cloud resources


How is IaC implemented in AWS?

Instead of the old way of writing script files and testing them in different environments, with IaC developers now can write, test and descriptively maintain infrastructure using formats like json and yaml. This makes development more 
efficient and easy


Why is devops so popular now?

First talk about the current state of the industry, with big players like netflix and facebook investing millions into devops. With their continuous deployment, they can push hundred lines of code changes instantly without affecting the 
quality of service. This has allowed them to push releases faster, reduce the lead time between bug fixes, streamline continuous delivery with automation and reduce manpower costs


What are the benefits of Version control?

Everyone can work on the same project concurrently and integrate their changes into a single version
With VC, you can see what changes were made when and who made those changes
Eveeryone would have a snapshot of the entire project at every instance, allowing for rollbacks to be performed


Describe branching strategies?

Release branch: branches off the main branch when sufficient changes have been made for a new release. Once branched off, no new features can be made apart from documentation and bug fixes. This release branch is then merged into master and 
given a new version number to be released
Feature branch: when working on a new feature, a feature branch branches off from develop. Once the modifications are made, this bracnh is merged into master. Automated testing must also pass First
Task branch: In this model, every task is implemented in their respective branch


What is "Shift Left to reduce failure" mean?

Typically, testing is done just prior to release. This means that the release will be delayed until the bug fixing is done. Shift left is the practice where defects are found and prevented early in the SDLC. The idea is to improve quality by 
moving tasks to the left as early as possible. The shift left represents shifting the testings done on the graph of progress to the left


What is Blue Green Deployment?

The principle requries the creation of two seperate identical environments, one blue and one green. The blue environment contains the current codebase while the green environment contains the new codebase. This will simply the rollback process
in the event that the deployment fails, reducing deployment risk. Once testing is done in the green environment, traffic is progressively directed to the green environment until all traffic is there. The blue environment is then depreciated.


What is continous Testing?

Continous testing is constuting automated testing the the principle of constant testing throughout the software development lifecycle. This allows defects to be detected early and ensure the high quality of code. Overall, it would accelerate
delivery and eliminate any testing bottlenecks


What are the benefits of automated testing?

Test can be run in parallel and need not be attended. A wide test coverage can thus be covered. This sames money and time.


How to automate testing in the devops lifecycle?

All code bases must be pushed to a common devops repository. After each push, Jenkins-like continous intergration tools will pick up the codebase and deploy it for continuous testing with tools like Selenium
Jenkins is a open source automation server used for CI/CD. it helps automate building, testing, and deployment by detecting changes ans triggering an automated build
Code is compiled and then tested via tools like selenium


Why is Continous Testing important?

It allows for continous testing of any code modification. This prevents testing bottle necks and quaility issues when testing is delayed until the end of the cycle


What are the key elements for continuous testing?

Automated testing, integration with CI/CD tools, testing on multiple environments, load testing, security testing, test data management, reporting and monitoring and containerisation. These are done with tools like Selenium, playwright, 
cypress, Jenkins, github actions, gitlab, selenium grid, mockeroo, JMeter, Gatling, OWasp Zap, ELK stalk, Prometheus, AWS lambda, kubernetes


What is the difference between a centralised and a distributed version control system?

In a centralised version control system, no one user has the entire codebase locally. They would have to connect to the central system inorder to push changes. If the central server goes down, the codebase is lost
When distributed, every user has a local copy of the entire codebase. Users can work independently and changes are then pushed and merged centrally when needed


How do you download a git repo to your local machine?

Git clone


How do you push a file from your local machine to a git repo?

Git remote add origin (github url)
git push origin master


What is the difference between a bare git repo and the conventional way of initialising git?

git init - initialises the current working directory as a git repository, and creates a .git subfolder to store version history. This is for individual development
git init --bare - doesnt create a working directory but will still have a .git subfolder. This is for remote repositories


How to revert commit?

git revert <commit hash> - will create a new commit that reverts the changes done in the previous commit 


What is the difference between git pull and git fetch?

git fetch - downloads the changes of your remote repository to your local machine but does not merge them into your current branch
git pull - a combination of git fetch and git merge where it downloads the changes of your remote repository to your local machine and then merges it into your current working branch


What is git stash?

git stash - allows a user to switch to another branch without having to commit the the changes to the current branch. git stash saves the modified changes into a stack which can then be popped and reapplied when the
user comes back to that branch


Difference between git merge and git rebase?

These are used when you want to have the new updates to the main branch be reflected while you are still working on your feature branch
git merge - merges the commits of your main to your feature but adds a merge commit
git rebase - copies all the commits from your main branch and places your feature branch commits in front of the branch


How to find a list of files that have been changed in a commit?

git diff-tree -r <commit hash>


What is git bisect?

git bisect - uses binary search to identify the first bad commit out of all the good and bad commits


Explain the Master-slave architecture of Jenkins?

The Jenkins master will kick start the CI process on a commit to a github repository. The workload is distributed to the slaves, who then build, test and produce test reports


What is a Jenkins file?

It is a declarative script that defines a Jenkins pipeline. It allows you to automate builds, test and deployments. java -ajr Jenkins.war runs the jenkins file on the command line


Key concepts of Jenkins pipeline:

Pipeline: User-defined model of CD that builds, tests, and delivers application
Node: A machine in the Jenkins environment that executes a pipeline
Step: a single task in the pipeline
Stage: a distinct subset of steps to be performed through the entire pipeline process (build, test, deploy steps)